[Music]
good morning welcome to breakfast with
rachel burden and john kay
here are our headlines today covet
booster jabs could be available as early
as september
the vaccine's minister says if needed
the extra injections
would be offered to the over 70s and
frontline health staff
lockdown eases for wales as it becomes
the first uk nation to lift travel
restrictions
within its borders a third night of
protests in bristol leads to ten arrests
police say bottles and eggs were thrown
at offices
trying to disperse a crowd of around a
thousand demonstrators
good morning wales are six nations
champions after scotland beat france in
paris
for the first time this century to end
french hopes of winning the title
will music festivals be back this summer
with many hoping so we're going to look
at the challenges facing the organizers
good morning after a chilly start this
morning we'll have some sunshine for a
while but there's cloud
rain and wind to move in from the
atlantic this weekend
but there is something to look forward
to next week
and i'll tell you all about that later
on
[Music]
good morning it's saturday the 27th of
march our top story then people over the
age of 70 could start receiving booster
jabs from september
to help protect them from other variants
of coronavirus
yes the vaccines minister nadim zahawi
said the programme would most likely be
rolled out this autumn
if it's required health and social care
staff
and the clinically vulnerable would be
first in line for those doses
as simon jones explains
track the government is confident of
offering all adults the first of two
doses of a covid vaccine by the end of
july
but now it's looking further ahead the
vaccines minister has told the telegraph
that the most vulnerable
could be given a third dose as early as
september
nadim zahawi says the booster jabs if
needed would initially go to people over
as well as nhs workers and care home
staff
manufacturing in the uk will be stepped
up to avoid any issues with the supply
chain
the government hopes eight different
vaccines will be available by the autumn
one of them could offer protection
against three variants in a single dose
more than three hundred and twenty four
thousand people had their first dose of
a coveted vaccine in the latest 24-hour
period
bringing the total to more than 29
million over 3 million people
have now had both doses when
non-essential shops reopen in england on
the 12th of april after months of
closures
they will be allowed to stay open until
10 at night six days a week
the government says the extended opening
hours will help shoppers return
safely to the high street protect jobs
and reduce pressure on public transport
but any effect on the number of
coronavirus cases will need to be
closely monitored
simon jones bbc news
10 people have been arrested in bristol
overnight following violent disorder in
the city
hundreds of people had gathered for a
third time to protest against a
government bill that would give the
police more powers to restrict
demonstrations tim allman reports
for the third time in less than a week
police
clash with protesters on the streets of
bristol
the demonstration had been largely
peaceful
but just after 10 o'clock officers told
people to disperse
then they moved in wearing helmets
and carrying shields they move forward
trying to force protesters to leave
there appeared to be minor scuffles some
officers using batons as they confronted
the demonstrators
police say projectiles including eggs
and glass bottles were thrown at them
and lasers were shown in their faces
all this happening close to bridewell
police station
the scene of sunday's first kill the
build demonstration
this described as the worst violence the
city had seen
in many many years last night that anger
was felt once more protesters insisting
their freedom to demonstrate is being
taken
away but even and somerset police said
they would not tolerate violent disorder
tim allman bbc news
wales is the first part of the uk to
lift travel restrictions within
its borders as the stay local rule is
being relaxed from today
yeah tourist accommodation can reopen
six people from two households can now
meet outside
and in private gardens hal griffith
reports
time to head to the highest peaks
or just breathe in some sea air
with travel restrictions now at an end
within wales
plenty of people are desperate to
reacquaint themselves with the
countryside and
coast but there's a warning keep away
from crowds
and have an alternative trip in mind if
you find green spaces
filling up we are expecting our hot spot
areas to get busy
and we would advise people to maybe have
a couple of plans up their sleeve
so if they arrive in one place and it's
busy and they're not comfortable being
there they've already got a plan b
last summer after the first lockdown
sunny weather saw people
swarm to places like snowdonia making
some local communities feel anxious
natural resources wales which manages
large areas of the countryside
says this time people must be careful to
protect themselves
and the environment there have also been
warnings for people outside wales to
stay
away unless their journey is essential
with the requirement to stay at home
still in place
around the rest of the uk howell
griffith
bbc news all
lorry and van drivers entering britain
from the eu
except the republic of ireland may be
required to take a covid test from the
6th of april if they're going to be
staying more than 48 hours here
that is according to the road haulage
association which also says the fine for
failing to comply with those rules could
be as much as two thousand pounds
the department of transport has not yet
confirmed the move though
a number of eu countries are introducing
new restrictions in an effort to control
a third wave of covert infections
germany's public health institute has
warned there could be up to a
hundred thousand deaths if the third
wave
spreads unchecked and new restrictions
are also coming into force in poland as
cases there have soared by more than a
third
let's speak to our correspondent in
warsaw adam easton adam
just looking at some of the figures that
are coming out of poland at the moment
um it does look like they need to take
some quite
strict uh measures extra measures talk
us through what's being done there
yes that's right uh poland is seeing
all-time
highs for new infections three times
three times this week it's broke the
record
and today from today there's introducing
heightened restrictions that's closing
nurseries preschools hair salons
um and large diy
and furniture stores that's on top
of a national partial lockdown which is
introduced just last weekend which saw
the closure of shopping centers hotels
all sporting and cultural facilities so
the
infection rate is accelerating here so
quickly
the people including the prime minister
here matteos morivierski says that uh
poland is facing its most difficult
moment since the pandemic began
and if the infection rate is not slowed
then the health system here will
basically not be able to cope
and we're not it's not just in poland of
course we're seeing in the region czech
republic hungary
very high death rates also in germany
the
as you mentioned the public health
institute has warned that infections
could rise to a hundred thousand
a day that's five times the amount we've
seen uh
in recent days and the health minister
there has also said that if
the infection rate goes unchecked then
the german health system will be
under severe pressure and not be able to
cope from next month
thank you very much indeed adam easton
talking to us from warsaw
more than 90 000 police officers have
been deployed to parts of france with
high levels of coronavirus to carry out
stringent checks
it comes as the country tackles its
third wave of the pandemic
those living in high-risk areas
currently aren't allowed to travel more
than
six miles from home unless it's an
emergency france has placed another
three regions now
into a partial lockdown and wales have
won their second
sixth nations title in three years after
scotland
defeated france last night in a delayed
very dramatic game with
an ongoing pandemic meaning there are
muted celebrations all round however the
welsh robber union did post this tribute
on social media thanking the whole
nation former international scott
quinnell summed up what many will
have uh been thinking watching that game
incredible game
and ever the proud welshman hugh edwards
posted camry ambith
which means long live whales
what do you get when you get together
an emu chick a baby goat and a gosling
uh this is one of those bad jokes that
we had last week a gosling walked into a
pub no
you get a very very cute part uh party
have a look at these pictures
uh taz the emu already the goat and
wriggle the gosling have formed an
inseparable bond
aren't they cute where is this this is
at cane hill countryside center in
wiltshire
and all three of them needed special
care after they were born earlier this
month
so they've sort of been thrown together
but they've apparently become the best
of friends since that is the sweetest
thing
where's beatrix potter when you need her
that's very sweet indeed show those all
morning i think
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc dot co dot uk
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with bbc news